New flow components: discovery.ec2 and discovery.lightsail (#3079)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/discovery.aws.ec2.md

---
title: discovery.ec2
---

# discovery.ec2

> `discovery.ec2` allows retrieving scrape targets from ec2 instances. The private IP address is used by default, but may be changed to the public IP address with relabeling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`discovery.ec2` allows retrieving scrape targets from EC2 instances. The private IP address is used by default, but may be changed to the public IP address with relabeling.
```

> The IAM credentials used must have the ec2:DescribeInstances permission to discover scrape targets, and may optionally have the ec2:DescribeAvailabilityZones permission if you want the availability zone ID available as a label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IAM credentials used must have the `ec2:DescribeInstances` permission to discover scrape targets, and may optionally have the `ec2:DescribeAvailabilityZones` permission to make the availability zone ID available as a label.
```

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`discovery.ec2`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
filter | [filter][] | Filters discoverable resources. | no

[filter]: #filter-block

### filter block

Filters can be used optionally to filter the instance list by other criteria.
Available filter criteria can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeInstances.html).

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`name` | `string` | Filter name to use. | | yes
`values` | `list(string)` | Values to pass to the filter. | | yes

Refer to [Filter API documentation][filter api] from the aws
documentation for the list of supported filters and their meaning.

[filter api]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_Filter.html

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------

> `targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of targets discovered from the docker API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of discovered EC2 targets.
```

Each target includes the following labels:

* `__meta_ec2_ami`: the EC2 Amazon Machine Image
* `__meta_ec2_architecture`: the architecture of the instance
* `__meta_ec2_availability_zone`: the availability zone in which the instance is running

> * `__meta_ec2_availability_zone_id`: the availability zone ID in which the instance is running (requires ec2:DescribeAvailabilityZones)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `__meta_ec2_availability_zone_id`: the availability zone ID in which the instance is running (requires `ec2:DescribeAvailabilityZones`)
```
